Bachelor of Computer and Information Sciences 
Software Engineering ENS701 and 737205 
Semester 1, 2016 

ASSIGNMENT 1b 

Team Project 

Contribution to final marks: 35% 

Due date: 

Milestone 1. Due date: 5pm, 15th April 2016 

Final Deliverables. Due date: 5pm, Friday 27 May 

 

Team Effort 

 

. This is a team assignment to be managed and submitted as a Team of 3-4 people. 
. All Team members will receive the same mark for this assessment unless it is indicated in the 
Team Participation Form that contribution or participation was not equal. 
. The lecturer may also negotiate an unequal assignment of marks under certain circumstances. 


 

Submission Requirements: 

 

All deliverables and required evidence for this assessment must be made available on the official 
team wiki provided for your team on Blackboard. 

 

Your wiki must be structured as follows: 

. Your wiki should clearly identify the names and Student IDs of all your team members. 
. Separate sections for ‘Deliverables’ and ‘Evidence’. 
. Within ‘Deliverables’ separate sections for ‘Milestone 1’ and ‘Final’. 
. The ‘Evidence’ section should include at a minimum separate sections to cover collaboration, 
planning and tracking, and quality assurance. You should add whatever other sections you need 
to make your approach to this project work effectively. 
. All deliverables should be professionally presented and use APA 6th reference formatting for 
citations and reference lists. Authors and document history should be included. 


 

 

Purpose of Assignment 

This assignment relates directly to the following course learning outcomes: 

 

. Describe contemporary professional and technical issues in software engineering. 
. Analyse issues affecting the organisation, planning and control of software-based systems 
development and select appropriate methods or techniques for addressing those issues. 
. Evaluate the relative merits of a range of software engineering techniques and methods. 
. Demonstrate advanced, critical knowledge of a specialist area of software engineering. 


 

Aims 

. To analyse a case or particular context in software engineering and to select an appropriate 
approach along with a suitable set of practices and tools for that situation. 
. To justify that selection based both on the particular project or context and on evidence derived 
from research about the relative merits of software engineering techniques. 
. To collaborate with others to plan, track and deliver this analysis, recommendation and 
justification. 
. To communicate clearly to others your recommendations and rationale with supporting evidence. 



Deliverables & Milestones 

 

 

Milestone 1. Due date: 5pm, 15th April 2016 

Deliverable 

Detail/ Marking Criteria 

Weighting 

Team Agreement 

Who will do this work? Identifies team members, their roles and responsibilities. 

Must include coverage of: 

. Agreed modes and frequency of communication. 
. Mechanisms adopted for work allocation. 
. Decision making processes including any processes for handling disputes. 


5% 

Work Breakdown Structure 
/Release Plan 

What work will you do? Which case study have you selected? Convey using a single page how you 
plan to approach this work and share it amongst the team. 

Must include: 

. Time-boxes for tasks. 
. Estimates of effort. 


5% 

Work Approach & Practices 

How will you do this work? What approach or practices will you use to ensure you produce the best 
products in a timely manner? How will you make use of principles and practices that have been shown 
to be effective (see Meyer 2014, p154) 

5% 



 

Final Deliverables. Due date: 5pm, Friday 27 May 

Deliverable 

Detail/ Marking Criteria 

Weighting 

Recommendations for Project 
Approach 

This comprises two items. 

Report 

Introduces the project and context and makes recommendations for suitable project approach/s. 

All recommendations are supported with clear rationale that reference both project attributes and 
software engineering literature where relevant. The report should also link to the ‘Project Practice 
Guide’ and the ‘Project Tool Guide’ (see below) for specific details related to implementing practices or 
tools. 

Executive Summary 

A single presentation slide that provides a summary of both your project and context and of the 
recommendations you are making and why. The goal is to convey your results clearly to a set of 
intelligent but busy people. 

25% 




Project Practice Guide 

The project practice guide identities and describes the recommended practices for each of the 
following areas: 

. Collaboration & Communication 
. Requirements Engineering 
. Project Planning and Tracking 
. Managing Change 
. Quality Assurance 


Links are provided to resources that support the practice and that enable future teams to upskill. 

15% 

Project Tool Guide 

Identify and justify the tools needed to support the recommended processes and practices. 

10% 

Tool/Practice Learning Package 

Select one tool or practice that you have recommended and prepare a learning package that would 
help a team quickly upskill to include the tool/practice in their daily process. You must include: 

. Goals. 
. Target Audience – assume people that are not familiar with the tool/practice. 
. Learning plan 
. Learning resources. You are free to include resources produced by others where they are 
freely available and correctly referenced. 
. Learning activity. At least one activity to support learning. This should be developed by you. 


Assume that you have 4 hours available to upskill the team. It may be used in a single session or 
divided across multiple sessions 

10% 

Evidence of Development Process 

Your team must provide evidence to support how you have collaborated and produced these 
deliverables. This should include evidence of: 

. collaboration, 
. planning and tracking, 
. version control, 
. quality assurance. 


15% 

Team Retrospective 

Reflecting on your results and work practices is an important aspect of continuous learning and 
improvement. Hold a retrospective for this project and summarise your conclusions in a single page 
document that identifies: 

. Practices/processes that you would use again & why. 
. Practices/processes that you would drop & why. 
. Practices/processes that you would add if you had to do a similar project again & why. 


5% 

Individual Retrospective 

Individual reflection is also important for learning. Identify: 

. Two things you did well. 


5% 




. Two things you could improve. How? 
. Two things you have learned during this project. 




 


Project Description 

 

This project requires your team to select one of the case studies identified below. 

 

Software Engineering research provides many examples that share positive and negative software 
engineering experiences, and that provide empirical evidence of the effects of a range of 
approaches, practices and tools. Making the best use of this body of knowledge is essential to 
improving our professional practice. This assignment asks your team to apply this knowledge to a 
particular context and use it to justify the selection of software engineering techniques. 

 

. Case Study 1 


Product: Software associated with a new robotic health device which will work in hospitals. 

Organisation: Large NZ based company with long term experience selling into international market 
for health products. 

Background: 

This new health device is the result of the company’s considerable investment over time in research 
and development. They are excited about the possibilities it brings and about the way it will round out 
the products they already sell into the international health market. The research and development 
arm of the company is domiciled within New Zealand, as are two of their software development 
teams, but many of their other functions (eg manufacturing, marketing, software development) are 
spread across their other 4 sites in Vancouver, Thailand, Mexico and Vietnam. 

The company has already registered patents for the technology involved. They have a strong in-
house skill set in the compliance and regulatory infrastructure for health products. Their existing 
overseas software teams support other products already in the market. For this new product they 
would like to use one of their New Zealand based teams used to working on prototypes with their 
research engineers to lead off, and extend it with teams from Vancouver and Vietnam once they are 
in full development. The current New Zealand based team is 9 people and uses a somewhat adhoc 
process as they produce proof of concepts rather than products. Both the Vancouver and the 
Vietnam teams use a company specified plan-driven development process that has been in place for 
11 years. 

 

 

. Case Study 2 


Product: Share portfolio management software. First released in 2004. Current version 6.4. 

Organisation: Used exclusively in NZ by 11 small to medium sized companies that belong to a 
single Investment Management franchise. 

Background: 

Stability, usability and support of current platforms by the software have become an issue for the 
franchisees. This triggered a search for a replacement product. The result of that extensive project 
was a decision to redevelop and extend the existing product because it was relatively unique in the 
market. The franchise group believes that this product differentiates their business but also has 
potential as a product for on-selling if it is redeveloped effectively. 

 

The existing software has a large body of code which has decayed over time. There is a team of 3 
people currently that maintain and support the software. The software does not currently support 
mobile platforms. 

 

The Franchise group has confirmed feasibility for this redevelopment and, following a failure to 
interest software development companies has decided on an in-house development team for the new 
product. They envisage that this team will be attached to the franchise headquarters in Albany and 
will start with 12 new members (in additional to existing team) and increase to around 18 by the end 
of 2017. 

 


 

. Case Study 3 


Product: Multiplayer interactive game. 

Organisation: Small indie game development startup. Current work force: 4; 

Background: A small game startup has been successful in promoting their idea in an international 
contest. As a result they have received some startup funding and now need to scale up their 
company to make this game a reality. Their current scoping and planning work suggests that this is a 
2 year project for a team of 45 – 50 people, including developers, designers, artists etc. 

 

 

 

 

 

Note: it is important to make sure all work that is not your own is acknowledged using 
appropriate referencing (in APA 6th format) and is either marked as quotations or the 
ideas are appropriately paraphrased. 

 

If you are unsure what this means please see your lecturer. 

 

Non-conformance to this will be treated as plagiarism and may end up with you being 
allocated a fail mark. 

 

If you are unsure of the meaning of the instructions or the criteria against which your 
work will be assessed ask your lecturer. 

 

References 

Meyer, B. (2014) Agile! The Good, the Hype and the Ugly. Switzerland : Springer 
International Publishing. 

 


